We've come a long way.
We've learned about objects and always starting to get more and more advanced, and you're going to
have to understand arrays when you come to programming.
And I like to think of an array as a variable that stores multiple values, and I want to stress the
word multiple values.
We're going to see shortly what I mean by multiple values.
But before we do, how do we identify an array?
An object can always be identified by the curly brackets arrays of closely related to it.
And you can identify an array with square brackets.
And taking a step back, remember when we were discussing dot attacks in JavaScript, the 2.2 times
these perimeters, which is just a fancy word for simple things like strings, numbers, balloons,
no undefined and even the symbol.
Those are all simple data types.
But then we've also got the object, which is complex data types.
Although everything in JavaScript is pretty much an object, for our sakes, it's always nice to break
it down and go, Okay, cool, we've got objects that we know we've also got to raise, and we've also
got another one functions.
And those are the second type of data types in JavaScript.
OK, so putting that aside, you kind of we arrays that in it's a dot, a type of JavaScript.
But they are just a special kind of object.
And I'll prove this to you.
Let's have a look.
An array is just an object.
And remember how, he said, to identify Mario or to create an array, you have to have square brackets,
objects or curly brackets.
So list find an array lit a equal.
Opening kilo square brackets that's set with grated.
And to show you that this array is actually an object, we can just go type of a.
There he got.
It's an object.
And remember, I said an array is like a variable that can store multiple values.
Well, how do we work with chunks of data?
For example, let's take a very easy scenario.
Let's say we've got the numbers one, three, five and seven.
How do we store that?
Can we just thought as a string?
Well, I guess we can we can just write it at one two, five seven.
That's just awkward.
What about if we wanted to add the numbers together?
What about if we wanted to extract just the five and leave the one, three and seven?
We can't really do that with strings, can we?
It's awkward back.
It's very difficult.
Let me just show you now a quick example of working with numbers in an array.
So how do we store numbers and what's the best way?
Because strings are awkward.
So let's define an array, and let's call it numbers for lack of a better word.
And our numbers are one, three, five and seven.
Now we've created an array called numbers.
That's it.
That's how easy it is.
And if we console.log up numbers.
And we open it up, you can really see the consoles telling us that the four elements in this array,
we can open it up.
And look at that is a few things worth noting here.
One is this array has a magical linked property.
Where do they come from?
We're going to see shortly.
Don't worry.
Second thing worth noting is that the key value pairs those keys.
Starts at the numbers zero.
Why is that?
Well, you got to think about the word numbers that we've created as a reference to memory location.
And if we type number numbers.
Zero.
All that they're trying to do is it's referencing a location in memory that has its elements away from
the reference point.
Yeah, we see the reference point to zero.
So it's taking the very first element finds in memory.
So in this way, that index those numbers zero, one, two and three, those are used as an offset.
And in our example, the very first element in the array, the number one or the key of zero.
It's elements away from its reference point, which is why when we talk numbers zero, it should give
us one because we are literally pointing to the same memory location that that is stored in hope.
It's making sense, but we're going to see a lot more examples of this later.
Let's move on.
So we've just seen a raise or daughter structures that take in multiple values, arrays don't have key
value pays.
They have singular pieces of data.
But what's cool is that arrays are objects so they can contain objects as well.
And we've seen a raise or a special kind of object.
But one difference is that a raise of a magical lynx property, the first venue in the ray is stored
under the key zero.
And remember when we looked at the JavaScript object model where the mascot spec defines an object,
it's just a reference, just a dictionary where you've got the keys and those keys point to a property
attribute.
Well, it's the same with arrays.
Let me show you an example, so let's look at the right model.
How does the engine treat an array?
We does this lynx property come from?
Well, let's define an array that just holds one value and that values the later eight.
So we're going to array the race called litters score two properties a length, and it's got a key and
the key starts at zero and they point to property attributes.
The length property has a value of one.
But it's innumerable and configurable properties or seek defaults.
Because this is in built in JavaScript, we don't want to be missing this around and reconfiguring it.
The key of zero points to the value A and that always the default two values.
Let's take our array and let's push be into it.
What happens then?
Well, now you're going to have an extra key.
You're going to have a one.
That one will point to the value B and the length and the key of zero point exactly the same things
as before.
I hope this is starting to become more intuitive to you.
Don't worry too much.
I know this is a bit theoretical because this is what the engine and this is what the arrays and objects
are doing in the background.
A lot of people don't understand this, but it is going to help you.
So let's move on.
Let me show you some more examples.